# help_how_to_play_combat.txt

Akintu is a game of exploration, combat, and treasure. This page is
dedicated to explaining the basics of combat.  Please consult the Controls
help page for details on which buttons to use to perform actions.

When you get close enough to monster groups on the overworld, the game will
zoom in on that section of the Overworld and will enter combat.  In combat
your AP (Ability Points) will determine how many actions you can take
before your turn will end.  (If you have a turn timer active, the green bar
on the right edge of the screen will end your turn early if it expires.)

AP is consumed by moving, using abilities, or hitting the END TURN button*.
When you press a button to move, you begin a "Move Action".  By default you
can move two tiles per move action.  This means that you pay your movement
AP cost at the start of each move action, and then can move your second
tile for free.  You can split up your move actions with abilities, and may
choose to end your turn rather than finishing any move action.

To use a spell or ability, you will need to open your spellbook, or ability
list.  (See the Controls page for help.)  This will bring up your spells
or abilities that you have learned.  Each ability/spell has its own AP cost
as well as a range indicating from how far away you can use it.
Additionally, many spells and abilities have a "Cooldown" indicating that 
you must wait a certain number of turns before you will be able to use it
again.  

Once you have an ability selected you need to select a target.  Some
abilities target allies, some only target yourself, and many target
enemies.  Each of these abilities will allow you to cycle through valid
targets that are in range.  There are some abilities that target locations
in the combat arena.  These abilities can be placed anywhere in range, but
they might not have a useful effect unelss there is a valid target in their
area of effect.  (Refer to the individual ability's description for more
details.)

In the upper-right corner you, and your allies' health, mana, and AP are
displayed.  If your health (often referred to as HP) reaches 0, you will
die and be removed from combat.  In the bottom-right corner, a listing of 
the monsters is displayed with their health, mana, and size.  If a
monster's HP reaches 0, it is defeated and will be removed from combat.
When all monsters have been defeated, you (and your allies) will be removed
from combat, returned to the overworld, and given experience and gold for
defeating the monsters.  


*Note: If your turn will not expire because you don't have enough AP to 
perform any actions (or only have enough for an action or move you don't 
wish to perform), the END TURN button will help combat progress.

