# help_monster_listing.txt

Petty Brignand
  Melee Attacker
  High Cunning makes him resistant to Thief abilities.
  Has a strong bleeding attack: "Draw Blood".
  Has low Magic Resist.
  
Common Thug
  Melee Attacker
  Has an armor piercing "Smash" attack.
  Has low Magic Resist
  
Hired Goon
  Weak Melee Attacker
  Will "Panic" when low on HP and attacked in melee.
  This will raise his Dexterity, making him harder to hit and more accurate
  
Rookie Gladiator
  Heavy Melee Attacker
  Heavily Armored
  Is able to "Deflect Missiles" making him strong vs. ranged physical
    attacks.
  Will occasionally "Quaff Potion", restoring a portion of his HP.
  Will never run out of potions.
  
Vile Apprentice
  Ranged Attacker/Magic User
  Can cast "Singe" and "Chill" on players.
  Can cast "Flicker of Life" on herself or allied monsters.
  Has high Magic Resist.
  
Gray Wolf
  Melee Attacker
  Can "Howl", hitting a broad area around it with Shadow damage and
    reducing the Might of players for a time.
	
Poisonous Rat
  Weak Melee Attacker
  High Cunning makes it resistant to Thief Abilities.
  Very high Dexterity, making it hard to hit and accurate.
  Very resistant to Poison damage and Poison effects.
  Able to move very quickly.
  
Undead Pillager
  Melee Attacker
  Like all undead, it is very weak to Divine and strong against Shadow.
  Able to cast "Haunt", dealing Shadow damage over time to a player.
  Very slow moving.
  
Red Dragonling
  Heavy Melee Attacker
  Is considered a form of Dragon and thus Dragoons gain bonuses against it.
  Deals a large amount of Fire damage.
  Very strong against Fire damage.
  Is able to lower armor with "Flaming Rend".
  Gains magic resist and additional fire elemental resistance via "Draconic
    Guard".
  
Blue Draonling
  Heavy Melee Attacker/Caster
  Is considered a form of Dragon and thus Dragoons gain bonuses against it.
  Deals a large amount of Cold damage.
  Strong against Cold and Fire damage.
  Is able to slow movement speed via "Frigid Slash".
  Gains magic resist and additional fire elemental resistance via "Draconic
    Guard".
  Can cast "Chill" which tends to be weaker than its melee attacks.
  
Mole Man
  Ranged Attacker/Caster
  Can cast "Stone Guard" to boost the defenses of himself or an ally.
  
Blue Ghost
  Melee Attacker/Caster
  Very difficult to harm with physical attacks.
  Has no shadow resistance, unlike most undead.
  Can cast "Cloud Vision" and "Shock".
  Not very strong vs. Magic.
  
Faded Wizard
  Ranged Attacker/Caster
  Like most undead, is very weak to Divine damage but strong to Shadow.
  Very strong vs. Magic.
  Can cast "Singe" and "Haunt".
  Can also cast a monster-specific spell "Shadow Field" which deals a large
    amount of Shadow damage over a broad region.
  Ranged attacks deal Shadow damage but aren't very accurate.
  
Guard Dog
  Heavey Melee Attacker
  Extremely low Cunning, making it vulnerable to Thief abilities.
  Is able to "Draw Blood", causing significant bleeding.
  Is able to "Endure Beating", increasing its physical defenses.
  Has "Growing Boldness", making it more powerful with each melee attack
    it performs.
  Very weak to magic.
  
Winged Terror
  Heavy Melee Attacker
  Has high Cunning, making it resistant to Thief abilities.
  Is vulnerable to Piercing damage specifically.
  Is very fast moving.
  Can perform a "Stunning Cut", which has a small chance to stun.
  Is extremely difficult to hit with a very high Dodge rating.
  
Green Lizard
  Melee Attacker
  Very tolerant to Poison effects but has little Poison elemental
    resistance.
  Can use "Toxic Spit" which will make players more vulnerable to poison
    damage, lower their accuracy, and give a chance to fail when casting
	spells.
  Regenerates health each turn it is alive.
  
Fade Beast
  Ranged Attacker
  Like most undead, is very weak to Divine damage, and strong vs. Shadow.
  Is able to use "Phantom Stare" making melee attacks less accurate and
    giving a chance to fail to cast spells.
  Will use "Shadow Burst" when surrounded or when very low on HP dealing
    massive shadow damage to nearby targets.
  Very strong vs. magic.
  
Soldier
  Heavy Melee Attacker
  Is heavily armored
  Weak vs. Magic
  Is able to "Quaff Potions" indefinitely, restoring HP.
  Has "Deflect Missiles" making him strong against ranged physical attacks.
  Can use "Military Valor" making him more accurate and deal more damage
    but also more vulnerable to Shadow damage.
	
Grasper
  Melee Attacker
  Deals Poison damage
  Is weak vs. Divine and strong vs. Shadow, like most undead.
  Is resistant to magic.
  Has high poison tolerance and resistance.
  Is able to "Sedate" players, making them less able to Dodge and move more
    slowly.
  Has other poison based attacks as well.
  
Witch
  Ranged Attacker/Caster
  Deals Electric damage
  Is very strong against magic.
  Can cast "Torrent" and "Lightning Bolt".
  Will knockback players with her ranged attack.
  
Monk
  Melee Attacker
  Moves slowly but attacks very quickly if he gets in range.
  Can use "Smash" and "Stunning Cut".
  Is very vulnerable to Poison damage and effects.
  Has high Cunning, making him resistant to Thief abilities.







  
  
  
  