# help_classes.txt

At the start of Akintu, you are prompted with the decision of which
character class you would like to be.  This decision will dramatically
alter the way your character will perform in combat and will shape your
overall Akintu experience.  

Character classes are formed from two "Base Classes" in a specific order.
For instance, a Fighter/Ranger combination forms the Dragoon class, while
a Ranger/Fighter combination forms the Anarchist class.  The base classes
help determine starting abilities and which options you are presented with
when your character reaches a new level.

Base Classes

  Fighter
  Ranger
  Thief
  Wizard
  
Combination Classes

  Barbarian (Fighter/Fighter)
    You are a powerful melee attacker whose abilities are tied to your
	HP level.  Beware magic, as your defenses against it are particularly
	low.
	- Wears Heavy Armor
	- Example Ability: Berserker Rage
	    Gain bonus Might and Critical Magnitude when your HP is under
		75%.
	
  Dragoon (Fighter/Ranger)
    You are a mobile warrior that is very skilled with Spears and 
    Halberds.  You are capable of quickly navigating the battlefield
    with your Jump Attack and dealing group damage in melee.  Beware
    Traps as your focus on the sky leaves you little Awareness for 
    hidden traps below.
	- Wears Heavy Armor
    - Example Ability: Jump Attack
        Jump to your target and deal massive damage on landing.  Nearby
        foes are harmed by the impact of your impact.

  Spellsword (Fighter/Wizard)
    You are a melee attacker capable of augmenting your attacks and those
    of your allies with your unique Enchantment spells.  While your
    spellpower is the most limited of all the magical classes, you make up
    for it with your heavy armor and the highest HP of any class able to
    cast spells.
	- Wears Heavy Armor
    - Example Spell: Enhance Weapon
        Your target's weapon gains bonus critical magnitude, armor
        penetration, critical hit chance and accuracy.

  Anarchist (Ranger/Fighter)
    You are a trap specialist capable of placing traps on top of monsters
    dealing their full damage immediately.  Your traps have the potential
    to be the most powerful of any trap-laying class.  Be warned that your
    standard melee and ranged attacks consume more AP than most other
    classes.
	- Wears Medium Armor
    - Example Ability: Explosive Trap
        Lay a trap down that will deal fire damage to the monster that
        triggers it as well as all monsters adjacent to it.

  Marksman (Ranger/Ranger)
    You are a ranged specialist.  Your attacks are the most accurate of
    any in the game.  You also gain a unique bonus to attack range on all
    of your ranged attacks, allowing you to pick apart targets before they
    can reach you.  Beware foes that manage to reach you in melee.  Both
    your movement and your melee attack AP costs are high.
	- Wears Light Armor
    - Example Ability: Cusp of Escape
        Attack a target on the edge of your range with an incredible
        bonus to accuracy and critical hit chance.

  Druid (Ranger/Thief)
    You are a master of poison attacks.  Your attacks debilitate foes
    in various ways, decreasing their combat effectiveness and killing
    them slowly over a period of time.  Beware foes with high poison 
    resistance or tolerance as they will be difficult for you to weaken
    with most of your abilities.
	- Wears Medium Armor
    - Example Ability: Painful Shot
        Attack with a ranged weapon dealing bonus critical damage
        and occasionally lowering enemy attack power.
		
  Assassin (Thief/Ranger)
    You are a ranged stealth specialist that frequently deals critical
	hits.  You strike from the shadows, often without breaking your
	stealth.  Beware agile and observent enemies as they will be able
	to detect you and close the distance to reach you where your ranged
	attacks will be less effective.
	- Wears Light Armor
	- Example Ability: Ranged Backstab
	    Perform a Thief backstab with a bow or crossbow with a huge
		bonus to critical hit chance, dealing massive damage if it 
		criticals and moderate damage otherwise.
		
  Shadow (Thief/Thief)
    You are the ultimate stealth master.  Your stealth is the most
	difficult to detect.  You are able to re-enter stealth very quickly
	after breaking out.  Less aware enemies are often helpless against
	your hit-and-stealth tactics.  Beware highly observent foes and
	enemies that use area-of-effect attacks because your conventional
	abilities are limited and your survivability relies almost completely
	on non-detection.
	- Wears Light Armor
	- Example Ability: Hide in Peril
	    When harmed by anything that deals at least 30% of your 
		maximum HP, immediately enter stealth if you aren't in stealth
		already.
		
  Nightblade (Thief/Wizard)
    You are a combination of stealth and magic with an emphasis on shadow
	elemental attacks.  You have access to a unique school of close-range
	shadow spells known as Bane spells.  While your physical attacks are
	not massively powerful, and you lack a large amount of MP, you have 
	access to several abilites to defeat your enemies through vampirism
	and shrouds of darkness when your physical and magical might fails
	you.
	- Wears Light Armor
	- Example Ability: Shroud
	    Deal shadow damage to all adjacent enemies and gain a 
		protective cover of darkness that gives a 20% chance to avoid
		enemy attacks outright.
		
  Battle Mage (Wizard/Fighter)
    You are a practitioner of devastating close-range magic.  You are
	able to wield medium armor without penalty and gain bonuses to your
	close-range spells.  While your HP is relatively low for a front-line
	combatant, you have many options to boost your defenses through spells
	and the ability to regenerate mana when landing melee attacks to keep
	those spells going.
	- Wears Medium Armor
    - Example Ability: Close-Ranged Magic
        Gain +6 Spellpower on all spells with a range of 3 or less.
	
  Arcane Archer (Wizard/Ranger)
    You are a long-range caster that mixes physical attacks with your
	bonuses at dealing arcane damage.  Your ranged attacks always
	regenerate mana for you, even if they miss.  You have large bonuses
	to arcane damage, which few monsters are resistant to.  Beware
	foes that reach you in melee as you are very frail and your movement
	costs too much AP for you to successfully flee from their attacks.
	- Wears Robes
	- Example Ability: Arcane-Threading
	    Your ranged attacks with bows and crossbows deal bonus arcane
		damage.  This benefit lasts an entire battle.
  
  Trickster (Wizard/Thief)
    You are a high-risk high-reward hybrid caster that performs well
	in melee as well as in ranged situtations.  Your primary mechanism
	for regenerating mana is through dodging enemy attacks, which you 
	are suprisingly good at.  Beware enemy magical attacks, because while
	your magic defense is substantial, if any spells are able to break 
	through it, your high dodge will not be able to protect your meagre
	HP pool.
	- Wears Robes
	- Example Ability: Glee
	    Regain 18 + 2 per level MP every time you dodge an attack.