# help_weapons.txt

Weapons in Akintu are categorized by how many hands are required to use
them.  One-handed weapons may be used in either hand, which allows for 
a player to use two such weapons at once.  Two-handed weapons require
the use of both hands, but benefit doubly from many magical effects 
and are rougly twice as powerful as a one-handed weapon.

One-handed exclusive weapons may only be used in the main hand, and
do not allow you to use a one-handed weapon in your other hand.  They
do, however, allow you to use a shield in the other hand.  One-handed
exlusive weapons tend to have attack power between one-handed and two-
handed weapons but do not benefit doubly from any magical properties.

Example Weapon:

  Battle Axe
    -- Name; no prefix or suffix indicates non-magical weapon --
	
  Type: Axe
    -- Some special attacks are only possible with specific "types" --
  Hands: One-Handed Exclusive
    -- How many hands it requires, and whether you can dual-wield it --
  Base Damage: 1-9
    -- Minimum and Maximum damage dealt with no bonuses or penalties --
  Damage Type: Slashing
    -- One of three physical "elements"; some monsters are stronger --
	-- or weaker to some types of physical attacks. --
  Force: 120%
    -- Benefits from Might 120% of the normal amount.  A might of --
	-- 10 would thus become 12 while using this weapon. --
  Critical Multiplier: 150%
    -- Deals 150% damage if it critically hits --
  Range: Melee
    -- Can only attack one tile away and diagonals --
  Weight: 5 lbs.
    -- Determines how much it weighs in your inventory --
  Value: 130 gold
    -- The value of this weapon before any discount or markups --
	
Weapon Types

  Sword
    Balanced weapon type with moderate force and a good critical
	multiplier.
	
  Axe
    Weapon type that favors strong characters as it has a high
	Force value, augmenting already strong warriors more than
	weaker warriors.  Lower critical multiplier than most
	weapons.
	
  Knife
    Weapon type with low base damage and poor Force but has
	the highest of critical multipliers.  Katanas belong to
	this category, but have an innate accuracy penalty if the
	wielder is not a Ninja.
	
  Polearm
    Weapon type with very high base damage but only mediocre
	Force and the lowest critical multipliers.  A good weapon
	for beginning characters and Dragoons.  Contains an
	innate accuracy penalty for classes without Fighter as their
	primary base class.
	
  Club
    Weapon type with excellent Force, but lower base damage and
	low critical multipliers.  Even better than Axes if your 
	strength is high enough.  Clubs deal bludgeoning damage
	which fewer monsters resist than Piercing or Slashing.
	
  Wizard
    Inexpensive weapon type that is prone to having magical
	properties when found in treasure chests.  Generally
	less powerful than other weapons if not magical.
	
  Bow
    Long range weapons with excellent critical multipliers
	and decent Force.  Has only moderate base damage.
	Longbows have an inherent accuracy penalty unless the
	wielder is a Ranger-derived class.
	
  Crossbow
    Medium range weapon that has 0% Force.  This means it deals
	no bonus damage based on Strength/Might.  However, it has
	exceptional base damage, making it an excellent choice for
	low strength attackers.
	
  Sling
    Medium range weapon that deals weak damage but is prone
	to magical properties and is the only ranged weapon to deal
	bludgeoning damage.
	
  Shuriken
    Medium range weapon that deals slashing damage and has a
	chance of piercing enemies in a straight line to harm those
	behind them.
	