# help_attributes.txt

Akintu has many attributes associated with a character.  The vast majority
of these can be viewed by opening your character sheet (C) while in the 
overworld.  Numbers in parenthesis indicate bonuses granted from equipment
currently equipped.  (Note that equipment equipped in the blue "alternate"
slots does not affect your statistics.)

For the most in-depth explanation of the character attributes, see the
online wiki.  A brief overview of the statistics is included here.

Primary attributes are increased on levelup.  Secondary and Tertiary
attributes are increased by the primary attributes and/or by magical
equipment.


Primary Attributes

  Strength
    Increases physical damage with most weapons (dependent on Force %)
	Moderately increases chance to hit with melee attacks
	Increases the amount of equipment you can carry before being burdened.
	Aids in bashing open locks with fewer attempts
	
  Dexterity
    Increases chance to hit with ranged attacks
	Moderately increases chance to hit with melee attacks
	Moderately increases chance to evade traps
	Increases chance to dodge physical attacks
	
  Sorcery
    Increases the power of all magical spells
	Increases the benefit you receive from imbibing HP and MP potions
	Slightly increases the duration of buffing potions (if very high)
	Improves the quality of amulets and rings discovered in treasure chests
	
  Cunning
    Increases the chance of landing critical hits
	Increases the chance of detecting traps (via Awareness)
	Moderately increases chance to evade traps
	Slightly increases armor penetration
	Increases the chance of avoiding detection in stealth
	Increases your shop discount and selling markup
	Increases the effectiveness of many Thief abilities
	Increases the effectiveness of Ranger traps
	
  Piety
    Increases available mana (Max MP)
	Increases magic resistance
	Increases the chance of detecting traps (via Intuition)
	Decreases the amount of damage received from traps
	
  Constitution
    Increases health (Max HP)
	Increases the chance of ignoring poison effects
	
Secondary Attributes

  Ability Points (AP)
    Determines how many actions you can take in a turn
	Is typically 20 but can be decreased by burden or using excessive armor
	Can be maximized up to a total of 25 only through rare magic gear

  Armor Penetration
	How much Damage Resistance (DR) your physical attacks will ignore

  Armor Tolerance (AT)
    How heavy of Armor you can wear without lowering your maximum AP  
	
  Awareness
    Used to detect traps and stealthed creatures
	
  Critical Chance
    Determines how often your physical attacks will result in Critical Hits
	
  Critical Magnitude
    Combines with the Critical Bonus of your equipped weapon to determine
	  how much extra damage your critical hits deal
	
  Damage Resistance (DR)
    Reduces the amount of damage you receive from physical attacks
	Is mitigated by Armor Penetration
	Is primarily granted by armor
	
  Dodge
    Helps determine whether a physical attack against you will be
	successful or will miss
	
  Hit Points (HP)
    Your life pool; when it reaches 0, you die.
	
  Intuition
    An alternate way to detect traps (independent from Awareness)
	Used to detect traps only if higher than Awareness
	Also reduces damage from traps
	
  Magic Resist
    Helps determine whether hostile spells will affect you
	Very high Magic Resist can cause spells to be completely ignored.
	Very low Magic Resist can allow spells to critically hit you, often
	  having a greater effect against you.

  Mana Points (MP)
	Your mana pool; it is consumed when casting spells.
	In combat, it can be recovered through potions and certain passive 
	  abilities.
	
  Melee Accuracy
    Helps determine whether your melee attacks will hit their target
	
  Melee Dodge
    Combines with Dodge when an incoming melee attack is being considered
	
  Might
    Is used along with weapon Force to determine how much bonus damage
	  your physical attacks will deal
	
  Movement Tiles
    How many tiles you can move before incurring another Movement AP Cost
	
  Poison Rating Bonus
    Is used to determine if your poison effects will affect your targets
	
  Poison Tolerance
    Is used to determine if incoming poison effects will affect you
	
  Ranged Accuracy
    Helps determine whether your ranged attacks will hit thier targets
	
  Ranged Dodge
    Combines with Dodge when  an incoming ranged attack is being considered
	
  Spellpower
    Determines how powerful your spells are
	Also determines whether your spells will be resisted or ignored
	
  Sneak
    Helps determine if you can escape notice while in stealth
	
  Trap Evade
    Helps determine if you can ignore the effects of a sprung trap
	
Tertiary Attributes

  Carrying Capacity
    How much you can carry without being Burdened (and lowering max AP)
	
  Gold Find
    How much bonus gold you earn after combat and from treasure chests
	
  Jewlery Bonus
    How much more powerful rings and amulets you find in treasure chests 
	  will be
	  
  Potion Bonus Effect
    How much more powerful healing and mana potions will be when used
	
  Shop Bonus
    Improves the selling price of your items and the discount of your
	  purchases in shops
	  
  Trap Damage Bonus
    Used to increase the amount of damage all of your traps deal
	
  Trap Damage Reduction
    Used to mitigate the amount of damage you incur from triggering traps
	
  Trap Rating Bonus
    Used to make your traps harder to evade
  
Elemental Resistances

  Each elemental resistance decreases incoming damage from a particular
  source.  You cannot resist damage above 80% but resistances above 80%
  server as a buffer against effects that decrease your resistances.  
  Players cannot have slashing, piercing, or bashing resistances but some
  monsters will.
  
Elemental Power

  Each elemental power increases the amount of damage you deal with a
  particular element, whether that be from the use of an ability, spell,
  item, or magical property on your weapon(s).  Elemental Power is not
  capped at any amount.
  
  
  
  
	
	