# help_inventory.txt

This help page assumes default keybindings are in use.  If you have altered
your keybindings, this page may not reflect the keys you need to use in
the inventory screen.

Akintu is a game with a rich variety of magical equipment.  Every
character has 8 places to equip armor: Head, Chest, Legs, Hands, Feet,
2 Fingers, and Neck.  Additionally there are two slots for equipping
weapons and/or shields: Main-Hand and Off-Hand.  For the weapon/shield
slots, there are also alternate equipment slots so you can switch between
two different weapons or sets of weapons in combat (details are covered
in the Alternate Equipment Slot help page.)

Equipping Weapons/Armor

  To equip an item, select the item on the left-hand side of the screen,
  and press E.  This will automatically fit the item to the appropriate
  slot.  If you wish to equip something in an off-hand slot or the second
  ring slot, press O instead.  Weapons and shields equipped will be red in
  color (unless equipped in an alternate slot in the which case it will be
  blue.)
  
  Immediately upon equipping a piece of gear, your attributes will be
  adjusted to reflect the gear (unless it is in an alternate slot.)
  
Unequipping Weapons/Armor

  To unequip an item, you can either equip a replacement piece of gear,
  which will automatically unequip it for you or you can select the item
  on the right hand side of your inventory (where the equipped items are)
  and press U.
  
Auto-equip

  If you have no armor on in a particular armor slot and you receive a
  piece of gear that both fits that slot, and is the ideal armor grade for
  your character class, it will automatically be equipped when you recieve
  it.
  
Burden

  Your carrying capacity is shown in the upper-right hand corner.  Both
  items equipped and items in your inventory will count toward your
  "burden."  If your burden exceeds your capacity, you will move more 
  slowly in the overworld and will have less AP to use in combat!  
  
Destroying Gear

  While it is better to sell unnecessary items, you can also destroy gear
  permanently from the left-hand side of your inventory (unequipped side.)
  To do this, select the item and press D.  Remember, this is not an action
  you can reverse!