# help_magical_equipment.txt

As you enter higher level areas in Akintu, the shops and treasure chests
will contain better items.  These better items will contain magical 
properties of various strengths that will make them more powerful in some
aspect.  

There are many different kinds of magical properties and up to
five different properties can exist on a piece of equipment.  Furthermore,
every magical property has a magnitude, or number of "stacks" of its
effect.  For instance, two stacks of Constitution bonus grant 2 points of
Constitution, wheras one stack only grants +1.  The exact effect of a
magical property is not always clear from its description, but should be
more obvious once it is equipped on your character.

Example:

  Snakeskin
  Platemail Greaves
  of Mastery
  -- Name has a prefix and a suffix, indicating at least two different
     magical properties. --
	 
  Grade: Heavy
  Type: Legs
  Damage Reduction (DR): 9%
  Dodge Modifier: -2
  Stealth Modifier: -9
  Weight: 11 lbs.
  Value: 382 gold
  >> Elemental Resistance: Poison x 3
  >> DR x 1
  -- Magical properties are listed at the bottom of the item.  In this 
  example, these greaves have 3 stacks of elemental resistance to poison
  and one stack of bonus damage resistance (DR). --
  -- Typically, platemail greaves only grant 7% DR, but these are listed as 
  9%.  Every stack of DR bonus on this piece of equipment counts as 2% DR. 
  On other gear, the DR granted from a DR bonus might be higher or lower 
  than 2% per stack.  (Heavy armor and weapons tend to benefit more from
  +Damage and +DR than lighter pieces of gear.) --
  -- These greaves also grant +3% Poison Resistance from their three stacks
  of elemental resistance to poison. --
  
In addition to DR bonuses on gear, Damage bonuses also vary from each piece
of equipment to another.  While every katana will gain the same benefit
from one stack of Damage to another, a katana will gain a different bonus
than say, a halberd.

A few other things to keep in mind about magical equipment:

1. More powerful weapons and armor are harder to find powerful magical
bonuses on than weaker weapons and armor such as staves and robes.

2. Weapon weapons and armor will not have bonus Damage or DR as frequently
as heavier weapons and armor.  In fact, most robe-type armor will never
have any DR bonuses at all.

3. Two-handed weapons will often be found with double the number of stacks
of their magical properties than single-handed weapons found in the same
area.  This is to compensate for the two sets of properties you can benefit
from by dual-wielding or using a weapon and a shield.

4. The magical rings and amulets you find in treasure chests will be 
more powerful if you have a high Sorcery attribute.  They will not increase
in power when you put them on, but rather, when you find them, they will
have more properties than if you had a lower Sorcery.