# help_levelup.txt

When you earn enough experience, you will "level up" to a new character
level.  This will give you improved attributes as well as new abilities
and/or spells.  The particular benefits of each level up depend on which
level you are advancing to, and which character class you are playing as.
The levelup process is split into five phases:

I.
The first stage of a level up is Trait selection.  You may select a new
Trait, or upgrade an existing Trait.  If a Trait you wish to upgrade is not
displayed in this screen, it indicates that you are not a high enough level
to further upgrade that Trait this level.  Check the wiki for move details
on Traits.  

II.
The second phase is Ability selection.  The abilities to choose from are
dependent on your two base classes.  Characters with a redundant base class
such as the Barbarian (Fighter/Fighter) will have fewer abilities to choose
from.  More abiliites will become available as you progress to higher
levels.

The Ability selection screen will only appear on specific levelups.

If you are a Wizard-primary class you get to select a new ability on these
levels: 4, 8, 12, 16, 20.

If you are a Wizard-secondary class you get to select a new ability on
these levels: 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 20.

If you are not in either of the above groups (you cannot cast spells) you
select a new ability on these levels: 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20.

III.
The third phase is Spell selection.  Only classes with Wizard as one (or
both) of their base classes are able to learn spells.  You may only select
from spells within your current Spell Tier. Every four levels has access to
a specific Tier of spells.  Each tier contains spells that are often
more powerful than the last.

Levels 1-4   : Tier I spells
Levels 5-8   : Tier II spells
Levels 9-12  : Tier III spells
Levels 13-16 : Tier IV spells
Levels 17-20 : Tier V spells

Wizard-primary classes select from either 1 or 2 spells each level.
Every odd level allows these classes to select 2 spells instead of one.
Wizard-secondary classes always select 1 spell each level.

IV.
The fourth phase is unique or combination ability display.  No selections
are made in this phase; rather, a notification of new abilities is 
displayed.  These abilities are both active abilities that can be selected
in combat, as well as passive abilities that are always active or become
activated automatically when certain conditions are met.  These abilities
are dependent on your particular character class, and are unique to your
class.  You will earn at least one ability in this phase every level.

V.
The fifth and final phase is a summary page listing everything that you
earned from the earlier phases as well as a listing of the attributes you
automatically gained.


For more details on the levelup process, see the online wiki.

